hey folks welcome back this lesson is
gonna be teaching my eye CTS Mt
divergence or ICT smart money technique
ok the focus points on this module are
introduction to the ICT SMT the SMT
divergence in bullish conditions and the
SMT divergence in bearish conditions
okay folks we're looking at the Aussie
dollars is a daily chart and I'm going
to cover the SMT divergence specifically
this teachings only be only on the USD X
SMT divergence there's many different
concepts for SMT that I teach but just
to keep things simple and easy to
understand one of the most powerful ones
that I use is the relationship between a
dollar index itself versus foreign
currency pairs alright so we're gonna
take a look at the Aussie daily and
we're gonna highlight this little area
right in here ok and what went on before
the big move up now I'm gonna cover some
things each you've already been exposed
to so you can see how things start to
more or less dovetail together and it
helps you give you a better interesting
at what price actions should do in the
coming sessions and days the SNT
diversions or SMT smart money technique
is something I've discovered by studying
relationships between correlated assets
and correlated markets and actually
developed it and the understanding
between the commodity markets when also
commodity futures trader before FX I
would look at the grain markets and I
would look at the currency markets and
I'll look at the bond markets the
10-year five-year and 30-year notes
respectively and I would compare their
price action with one another and I
started seeing a setup that would always
be there when significant price moves
would occur and I think that if we were
in a room together and I asked everyone
by raising their hand if they
felt this move here on the Aussie dollar
was significant and a worthwhile study
in terms of what made this price action
movement I think everyone would raise
their hand or at least the majority of
them in the room would raise their hand
and agreed that this was a significant
price maybe this is a daily chart so
it's over 150 pips so it's respectable
so I want to go in and do some breakdown
on this low in here and show you some of
the things that takes place and how also
you can use the S&T diversions for
bullish scenarios and that's we're going
to cover now okay so I have a crude
diagram up here and this is going to
more or less help me illustrate what it
is that makes an smt divergence and for
the sake of this specific bullish
scenario we're going to refer to the
blue line up here okay that's going to
represent the Aussie dollar and the red
line is going to represent the dollar
index okay so in a symmetrical market
where everything is as it should be when
the market creates a lower low and for
instance in the Aussie dollar the dollar
index should make a comparable higher
high so while the foreign currency makes
a lower low it should be reasonably
expected to see the dollar index make a
higher high this is what this is this is
referred to as a symmetrical market
sometimes you will see the market create
this the market will fail to make a
higher high at the time when the foreign
currency makes it lower low so if the
dollar index fails to make a higher high
at the same time that the Aussie dollar
makes a lower low this is a cracking
correlation so that means there's
something going on underlying behind the
price action that's showing heavy
distribution in a dollar index because
it's failing to make a higher high when
it should reasonably do so if this is a
lower low in Aussie
conversely another scenario might be
this and it would mean the same thing
okay so I'm giving you two examples here
that would give you the same analysis
that being there's a cracking
correlation okay so now we have the
dollar index making a higher high but
now in this case if this was
representing the Aussie dollar the all D
dollars failing to make a lower low so
this is suggesting that all Zee dollar
is being bought up because it's failing
to make a lower low otherwise it should
have made a lower low as the dollar
index made a higher high so when we're
looking at SMT what we're doing is we're
looking at exactly the same timeframe at
exactly the same reference points or
candles either one of these scenarios
means the same thing what we just shown
was earlier the dollar index was failing
to make a higher high while the Aussie
dollar made it lower low that is
weakness on the part of the dollar so
that would be bullish or Aussie dollar
here we see the dollar index making
higher high and the Aussie dollar
failing to make a lower low that still
is bullish for Aussie dollar okay
it takes just this relationship to be
present and price action for you to see
when there will be most likely a turning
point or in this case accumulation in
Aussie dollar so we're going to go into
this idea and I'm going to show you how
we can take this information
so I'm gonna take this idea and flesh it
out using the Aussie dollar okay and I
want you to take a look at the overall
price structure on the daily okay so
obviously we've seen Aussie dollars been
trading lower for a long period of time
basically since September of 2017 we've
had several months of bearish prices so
if we go out to a weekly chart okay and
we have this really nice dynamic price
movement here so we have to go right to
the down close candles and both these
candles here back-to-back down close
candles so we're gonna use the top of
the most highest candle it's going to be
our bullish order block and you'll learn
more about these in coming tutorials so
the high comes in at seventy five
seventeen and seventy five seventeen is
our level so we're going to take that
level keep it there I'm gonna drop back
down into the daily okay so we have our
level here and also notice that we have
equal lows okay so we have equal lows
here on the daily and we'll look at that
one get down to an hourly chart and we
also have equal lows here as well so
won't reference both of those liquidity
pools but we want to keep this level in
mind because it's going to be
significant in a couple minutes if we
drop down into an hourly chart
okay so we can see the hourly price
action dips below that weekly bullish
order block okay you can see that actual
accumulation taking place rallies up
retracements optimal trade entry and
then nice expansion on the upside we're
gonna take a look at a few things over
here we have our liquidity pool okay so
we have this area here okay there's 30
pips below that and then we have another
area over here okay so 30 pips below
that and takes us down below into the
daily into the weekly bullish shoulder
block so we have to liquidity pools that
price had reached for and then we went
inside of a weekly bullish shoulder
block okay so we have a lot of things
going for us in this particular pair but
I want you to take a look at this
overall price structure in here
and I can see accumulation based on the
price action itself but what if we had
an opportunity to use not an indicator
but price action of the dollar index
itself to measure whether there's really
smart money buying on the Aussie dollar
here or if it's just noise now again
we're assuming that we don't know this
portion of the price action is taking
place yet we're just looking at this
whole area right in here the
consolidation rate for the start of the
move higher so let's take a look at this
price action ringing in the dollar index
on an hourly chart as well all you have
to do is take your chart and open up an
hourly our chart open up an hourly chart
of the dollar index and plot it with
your window feature here on Windows tab
at the top of Mt force
form and you're gonna click on
horizontal okay when you click on
horizontal you have two charts open one
time it'll plot it just like this that
may put the dollar index on the bottom
side or it may put it on the top in this
case it has it on the top doesn't make a
difference because we're gonna be able
to look at everything as we would regard
to what orientation it is so we have the
dollar index okay you always want to
check your little data here showing the
fifth of December 2017
and we're gonna have to roll back that
by zooming in so that way we have the
same reference markers okay you know I
want you to take a look at closely and
see what you see here I'm not gonna say
anything yet I want you to take a look
at what you can spot on price action
alone okay we've have the Aussie dollar
failing to make lower lows here at the
same time the dollar index was making
higher highs okay see that says there's
the start of accumulation in the Aussie
dollar then we have the Aussie dollar
making a higher high relative to this
high here so if we draw a straight line
down from that we're going to reference
this low okay and if we draw a straight
line Imagineering from this high
straight down that represents this low
okay so what we have a graphic depiction
of real accumulation and the Aussie and
okay we can see the higher high in the
dollar index we should see a lower low
in the altie dollar we don't we don't
see that so that means we have
accumulation in Aussie dollar
distribution in the dollar index not
surprisingly this is exactly the same
time when we saw the dollar index
straight up into its daily resistance
point okay that old high look at this
level here and this level here this is
distribution because we do not see the
Aussie dollar making a lower low so
everything works like a teeter-totter
okay if one side goes down the other
side goes up if one side goes up the
other side goes down if we put the
dollar index on one side of the
teeter-totter and the Aussie dollar on
the opposite end what's being suggested
here is there's more buying in the
Aussie then there is buying on the
dollar index even though the dollar
index made a higher high here it looks
like an outward base value only it looks
like it's broke out it's bullish but if
we start ringing in other correlated
assets like inverse relationship between
Aussie dollar and the dollar index we
can see that there's actually massive
accumulation coming in at that very
moment and we've already seen early
signs of it back here because the Aussie
dollar was making no attempt to make a
lower low when the dollar index was
making a higher high okay then we had a
really nice interview term high relative
to the hourly chart and failure to go
lower again on Aussie so now we can look
for optimal trade entry Long's
at the same time that the market was
getting ready to sell off with an
optimal trade entry so here so I'll give
you an example what that looks like
again sticking to the bodies of the
candles the bulk of the volume rate
there's a lowest body
boom 70.5 level and in down she goes
here similar idea just in Reverse okay
we have the lowest body here drag it up
to the highest body perfect 70% and I'll
zoom in on that you guys can see it
perfect delivery make sure I got it
right on your side on my cheat right
there 3 on top of this body delivery of
79% on the Fed 300 extension nails it
beautifully SMT divergence gives us an
x-ray view of what accumulation and
distribution may be taking place in
price action
Italy is a little confusing if you have
not seen it before or studied it because
it's well it's one of those things that
you you have to study it for a while to
get a couple examples of its use but
this would be a bullish example of it
with distribution and the dollar and
accumulation in the Aussie dollar so
let's take an example of it being used
in a bearish scenario ok so here we have
the dollar index on the top hourly chart
and the table out a chart on the bottom
you see that the dollar index here makes
a lower low here so face value it looks
like dollars week at the same time the
cable market you can see is not making a
higher high as you would expect it to do
so this is a cracking correlation that
means that this isn't weakness this is
in fact weakness
because it failed to make a higher high
when it should have what the dollar
making a lower low
this shows underlying weakness in the
cable and this is actually a false move
below the old low this is going to be
accumulated for longs for the dollar
which is gonna relate to we're gonna
translate into a weaker British pound
and you can take that scenario and then
Tessa pay weakness and start looking for
areas of liquidity for cable underneath
old lows and they would be your targets
and we have lows over here equal market
trades to it there and then we have
equal lows over here market trades to it
here and finally below over here and it
does that as well okay so this is an
example of a bearish smt divergence when
a dollar makes a lower low and the
foreign currency fails make a higher
high the weakness is in the foreign
currency failing to make the higher high
this is going to be a turtle soup long
and this is going to be a failure swing
or bearish scenario and you can look for
opportunity to get short with an optimal
trade entry sell and cable highest body
open or close down to are reactionary
low here
awesome trade entry here stop would be
above this high you can see ghost a
symmetrical price swing rather nicely
and we have smaller ones in here too you
could have used this range to this range
here optimal trade entry again goes to
the symmetrical price swing as well so
there's several examples in here that
you could used for optimal trade entry
entries on short for a weaker British
Pound because it failed to make a higher
high when the dollar made that low or
low the premise behind it is this is
what makes it work is this movement
lower in the dollar upsets the majors
everything that's paired with the dollar
what we do is we look for currencies
okay foreign currencies to fail to
that same respective pattern but in a
mirror image so that the dollar makes
that lower low we go through all the
major currencies and seeing which one
fails to make that higher high as you
would expect it to do if it doesn't it's
showing underlying weakness in that
particular foreign currency which is
still bullish for the dollar and what
that means is we could be a buyer below
this old low and say say this wasn't a
dollar up here say say they were
reversed
they say the lower chart here on the
bottom say that was the dollar index and
the top chart was cable if I had this
scenario here I would be buying below
that low here on cable with the idea
they said turtle soup long false
breakout or run on sell stops and now I
hold for higher prices as a result hey
folks hopefully you've enjoyed this
presentation if you like what you saw
and you want to find more you can go to
my website at the inner circle
trader.com